gu^ten tahK
nih HAO
bonjour
ciao
salve!
allora
konnichiwa!
Hola
Nachalo
A Brief History of Time
Gymnopedies Gnossiennes and other works for piano
Noam Chomsky: On my own, not in the high school system.
Noam Chomsky: I'm into eating as little as possible, paying as little attention as possible. 
Noam Chomsky: I never cook. stove or anything.
Noam Chomsky: Oh, I won't bore you.
BYavorsky and ADetlaf
Computer Algebra and Robotics
Tomas Recio: Since there is no theorem on the number of real roots as a sole function of the degree of a polynomial
Tomas Recio: one of my contributions to this subject was an algorithm, improving Sturms theorem, using
Tomas Recio: subresultants to cope with the problem of parametrizing Sturm's procedure
Grothendieck: a mathematical problem will solve itself when, by sufficient humble attentiveness, one has found
Grothendieck: exactly it's right context and formulation.
Accordning to the Authors of "Do Theorems Admit Exceptions"
"Mathematical thought concerning proof is different" 
"from thought in all other domains of knowledge"
"including the sciences" 
"and as well as"
"everyday expericen; the concept of formal proof is completely outside the mainstram thinking"
David Wells: This claim is at best misleading and at worst, false.
David Wells: Counterexamples are to be found among analyses withing 
David Wells: popular abstract games such as chess and Go, or Hex and Nine Men's Morris,
David Wells: and many much simpler abstract games;
David Wells: within popular abstract puzzles such as Luca's Tower of Hanoi
David Wells: or Euler's Bridges of Köningsberg or the Leaping Frogs puzzle & many other
David Wells: well-known 'investigations'; and (of course) in the wide cross-over genre of
David Wells: mathematical recreations such as pentominoes and knight tours which
David Wells: combine elements of abstract games with elements of puzzles.
David Wells: By tackling puzzles and games, and those intermediate recreations, which 
David Wells: to pupils appear (at first) to be non-mathematical 
David Wells: (mathematicians know better of course) pupils can create their own totally
David Wells: convincing arguments (proofs) of various forms and hence develop their
David Wells: conceptions of proof in more-or-less familiar surroundings. 
David Wells: Puzzles and games are natual to all pupils from a young age, and suitably
David Wells: simple puzzles and games
David Wells: are easy
David Wells: to find, and many have been published...
David Wells: the central concepts of mathematical arguments & proof can be firmly embedded in familiar 
David Wells: situations, from a young age, and much of their claimed difficulty
David Wells: simply disappears.
Letters to the Editor
David Ruelle (IHES, Paris):  Dear Yves Meyer,
David Ruelle:  I was very pleased to read the text of your EMS interview as published
David Ruelle: in the IAMP New Bulletin of July 2011, especially what you said about the French Grandes Ecoles.
David Ruelle: I am, as you are, in favour of 
David Ruelle: the elitist system of the Ecole Normale and the Ecole Polytechnique 
David Ruelle: but against the lifelong privileges given to their
David Ruelle: students. The latter means 
David Ruelle: that there is lifelong discrimi- nation against those who 
David Ruelle: did not graduate from one of the Ecoles. 
David Ruelle: Amusingly (or sadly) many left-wing French intellectuals, 
David Ruelle: who are ready to fight every sort of discrimination, make an exception for            
David Ruelle: that one.
David Ruelle: When I came to France in 1964 (after working in Bel- gium, 
David Ruelle: Switzerland and the US), the IHES was not yet called IHÉS and it was outside of the French system. 
David Ruelle: Discussions about people to invite were based on scientific 
David Ruelle: quality at the international level; only later 
David Ruelle: would one hear things like “he is one of the best mathematicians from the Ecole Normale in the 
David Ruelle: last ten years”. After my arrival at the IHES, my new colleague Louis Michel took time to 
David Ruelle: tell me who in the French mathematics and physics community was from the Ecole Normale and 
David Ruelle: who was from the Ecole Polytechnique (Michel became 
David Ruelle: furious when I got it wrong). I was neither Normale nor Polytechnique and, 
David Ruelle: after a while, I came to realise that this was important for 
David Ruelle: many French people I interacted with (there were
David Ruelle: some visible exceptions like 
David Ruelle: René Thom, who couldn’t care less, and also, curiously, 
David Ruelle: Jacques-Louis Lions). Later, in the physics section of 
David Ruelle: the Académie des Sciences, I was surrounded by two blocs: Saclay-Polytechnique 
David Ruelle: headed by Anatole Abragam and Normale-Ulm headed by Jean Brossel. 
David Ruelle: At one point, Jacques Friedel made a list 
David Ruelle: of those awarded the “grand prix” in physics, showing a 
David Ruelle: fair equilibrium between the two blocs. But, as 
David Ruelle: Friedel pointed out, very little was left to people outside the blocs...
David Ruelle: Discrimination against various human groups 
David Ruelle: is widespread and often has tragic consequences. 
David Ruelle: The discrimination in France against those who are not 
David Ruelle: from the Grandes Ecoles may be seen as a rather mild affair 
David Ruelle: and one is tempted to simply 
David Ruelle: shrug it off. One shouldn’t. I think that 
David Ruelle: Alexander Grothendieck’s tragic story is strongly 
David Ruelle: related to the fact that he was not from the Ecole Normale. If he had been, 
David Ruelle: the IHÉS Director Léon Motchane would have been much more prudent in dealing 
David Ruelle: with him and he might not have left. Or after 
David Ruelle: he left the IHÉS, probably more effort would 
David Ruelle: have been made by the community to find a 
David Ruelle: suitable position for him.
David Ruelle: Thank you again then for publishing your interview. 
David Ruelle: This gave me a chance to repeat things 
David Ruelle: that are fairly well-known but deserve to be discussed 
David Ruelle: rather than just being silently accepted.
